---
layout: page
title: "What are the editing options for flavors in a transcoding profile?"
date: 2011-12-20 12:17:48
---

<span style="font-size: small;">The following options may be edited for each transcoding flavor selected in a Transcoding Profile:</span>

<strong style="font-size: small;">Impact on Entry Readiness</strong><span style="font-size: small;"> –Determines the impact of each specific transcoding flavor on entry readiness for publishing.<br /></span><span style="font-size: small;">The options are:</span>

*   <strong style="font-size: small;">Required</strong><span style="font-size: small;"> – The entry will not be set to a Ready state until the processing of the specific transcoding flavor is complete. To expedite video readiness we recommend applying the ‘Required’ setting to a single flavor that is required for playback on each required environment. For example, if the source file is an MOV that cannot be played on the web, flagging only one lowest quality FLV or MP4 flavor as ‘Required’ will  ensure the video will be published as quickly as possible while the other flavors are being prepared.</span>
*   <strong style="font-size: small;">Optional</strong><span style="font-size: small;"> – The entry may be set to a Ready state before the processing of the specific transcoding flavor is complete. When no other Transcoding Flavor within the Transcoding Profile is set as required, completion of the processing of any Optional flavor sets the entry to the Ready state. We recommend using this option for most flavors to increase speed of readiness.</span>
*   <strong style="font-size: small;">No Impact</strong><span style="font-size: small;"> – Determining entry readiness is not affected by the presence of this transcoding flavor. This is usually the default setting for the “Source” transcoding flavor.</span>

<strong style="font-size: small;">Use Kaltura Transcoding</strong><span style="font-size: small;"> – Determines whether to use the Kaltura transcoding engine for generating each specific transcoding flavor. This option is enabled only when your account is set to support the ingestion of multiple bit-rate transcoding flavors generated by your local transcoder.  If Kaltura performs transcoding of all flavors except the ‘source’ file, this option should be set to </span><strong style="font-size: small;">Always.<br /></strong><span style="font-size: small;">The options are:</span>

*   <span style="font-size: small;"><strong>Always</strong> – Kaltura’s transcoding engine always will be used for generating the specific Transcoding Flavor.</span><span style="font-size: small;"><strong>Never</strong> – The Kaltura transcoding engine will not generate the specific transcoding flavor. This is a fixed setting for the “Source Flavor” which always is added to the entry with no additional processing. This option should also be used when your account’s content ingestion workflow relies on a local transcoding engine and when the ingestion of the previously transcoded Flavor to Kaltura should always take place, bypassing Kaltura’s conversion processing.</span>
*   <span style="font-size: small;"><strong>As a Fallback</strong> – The system expects to add this transcoding flavor from a local transcoding engine, but will use Kaltura’s transcoding engine as a fallback to convert to this flavor when the flavor is not received as part of the ingestion request. This option adds flexibility when you want to use your local transcoding engine while utilizing Kaltura’s transcoding engine as a fallback option.</span><span style="font-size: small;"><strong>System Name (Optional) – </strong>The system name is used to identify the flavor in client-side applications. For example, to mark a specific flavor as suitable for playback on iPad devices, the system name was set to iPad.</span>

<strong style="font-size: small;">Flavor Generation Policy</strong><span style="font-size: small;"> – You can bypass Kaltura’s transcoding optimization, and force specific flavors to be generated even when though they are detected as redundant by the Kaltura transcoding optimization module.</span>

*   <span style="font-size: small;"><strong>Use Kaltura’s Optimization</strong> - Kaltura’s optimization routine decides whether it is worth-while to create a flavor (For example if the source video is of lesser quality than the flavor, the optimization routine will not create the flavor).</span>
*   <span style="font-size: small;"><strong>Force Flavor generation</strong> –Select this option to override the Kaltura optimization routine and create a flavor regardless of whether or not it is redundant quality wise (For example, when a publisher has to distribute the video through a broadcast channel that requires specific flavor specifications, the flavor must be created.)</span>

<span style="font-size: small;"><span class="mce-note-graphic">The same flavor may have different settings in a different transcoding profile, which allows for greater publishing flexibility).</span></span>